feat: serverless ip firewall for public endpoint (#20494)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/configure-serverless-firewall-rules-for-public-endpoints.md

---
title: Configure TiDB Cloud Serverless Firewall Rules for Public Endpoints 
summary: Learn how to configure and manage firewall rules with public access to your TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster securely.
---

> # Connect to TiDB Cloud Serverless via Public Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure TiDB Cloud Serverless Firewall Rules for Public Endpoints
```

> This article describes the public connectivity option for TiDB Cloud Serverless. You will learn key concepts for securely managing a TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster accessible via the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the public connectivity option for TiDB Cloud Serverless. You will learn key concepts for securely managing a TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster accessible via the internet.
```

### Characteristics of public access

- Only specified IP addresses can access TiDB Cloud Serverless.  
    - By default, all IP addresses (`0.0.0.0 - 255.255.255.255`) are allowed.  
    - You can update allowed IP addresses after cluster creation.  
- Your cluster has a publicly resolvable DNS name.  
- Network traffic to and from your cluster is routed over the **public internet** rather than a private network.

### Firewall rules

Granting access to an IP address is done via **firewall rules**. If a connection attempt originates from an unapproved IP address, the client will receive an error.

You can create a maximum of 200 IP firewall rules.

### Allow AWS access

You can enable access from **all AWS IP addresses** by referring to the official [AWS IP address list](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/aws-ip-ranges.html).  

TiDB Cloud regularly updates this list and uses the reserved IP address **169.254.65.87** to represent all AWS IP addresses.

## Create and manage a firewall rule 

> This section provides an overview of managing firewall rules after creating a TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster. With a public endpoint, the connections to the TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster are restricted to allowed IP addresses only. The client IP addresses need to be allowed in firewall rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to manage firewall rules for a TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster. With a public endpoint, the connections to the TiDB Cloud Serverless cluster are restricted to the IP addresses specified in the firewall rules.
```
